# Quipper code Compiler

## The website

A website that compiles and shows circuits in Quipper was made.
This website was created as a way to better analyze and interpret circuits generated by Quipper. Not only that, it can also serve as a great tool for future users that might be interested in experimenting this language, without the hassle of trying to install it on their computers. 
This website allows the user to write Quipper code and then see their output, either as an image or as text, depending on how the user prefers. This website also has some predefined algorithms written in Quipper that the user can test and edit. 


## The arquitechture

The website was done using .NET with React in the frontend. As a general explanation, the user writes code that's sent to the backend. In the backed, the code is first saved as an Haskell file, then compiled. If the compilation fails an error message is sent to the user. If the compilation succedds, the program executed the program and send the output to a EPS file (vector file format used for professional and high-quality image printing). Finally, using an application called GhostScript, this file is tranformed into a png image and is sent back to the frontend. This naturally creates some limitations in how the output can be shown. However, since most, if not all, algorithms produced in Quipper can be outputted in EPS format, this limitation becomes much less worrying.


## Challenges in creating the website

The biggest challenge in creating this website was, without a doubt, being able to transfrom the EPS file into an image. When testing, the EPS files that Quipper created were always invalid or corrupt. This same issua also occured when trying to create PDF and PS files. After much testing, I discover that the issue were in the first to bytes in the generated file. When sending the output of the executed code in Quipper to a file, the output is sent in a format that there is not typically acceptable by other programs, just like GhostScript. To fix this issue, I had to enforce a certain encoding when creating the EPS file. 